# Dynamic Software Testing

The goal of this assignment is to develop a software test plan and perform the testing campaign for a software code selected by the students (see details and requirements for selecting the code to be tested below in point 1). An important aspect is in the fact that the assignment should be regarded as an exploratory software testing exercise. That is, each group of students is expected to identify and select the most appropriate testing approaches, taking into account the topics covered in the T classes, and tools available at the Internet, instead of just following a predetermined testing script and using mandatory tools. Additionally, the focus is on dynamic testing, which means that static approaches (e.g., static code analysis, code inspections, etc.) are out of the scope of the assignment.

The exploratory nature expected for this assignment also implies the necessary focus on the concepts, as a first step to identify and use the best testing solutions and tools. For example, it is useless to try to identify available tools to support control flow testing in a given program unit if you do not know what control flow testing is. For that reason, the (strong) recommendation is to start always from the concepts (types of tests, scope, etc.) and look at the assignment as an opportunity to learn how the concepts covered in the T classes can be applied in practice.

Although completeness in software testing is very important, the true goal of the assignment is to learn as much as possible. In other words, the evaluation of the assignment output will not be done in a “checklist” basis, taking into account only what has been actually done. On the contrary, all the evidence of lessons learned by the students will be taken into account and highly recognized in the evaluation of student’s work. The discussion of the assignment in the defense will be particularly focused on the evaluation of what the students know about the work done in the assignment and not on the simple verification of the amount of work done.
